Testability statements for section 5.4 (#214)
eea-oasis/baseline-standard: core/baseline-core-v1.0-psd01.md

The communication protocol layers are defined as follows, and note that some requirements refer to communication between BPIs as noted within the relevant requirement:
* Transport Layer
  - #### **[R102]**	
    A BPI MUST utilize the well established TLS 1.2 [[RFC5246](#rfc5246)] or 1.3 [[RFC8446](#rfc8446)] protocol to transport messages between BPIs.
    
    [[R102]](#r102) Testability:

    Preconditions:
    * The BPI system is operational and properly configured.
    * The BPI communication capability is enabled and supports TLS protocol versions 1.2 and/or 1.3.

    Test Steps:
    1. Check the BPI documentation to confirm that it specifies the use of TLS protocol versions 1.2 and/or 1.3 for message transport between BPIs.
    2. Ensure that the BPI supports TLS protocol version negotiation to enable the use of either TLS 1.2 or TLS 1.3 depending on the capabilities of the communicating parties.
    3. Review the BPI implementation to verify that the TLS handshake process is properly configured to negotiate the highest supported TLS version with the remote BPI.

>     4. Validate that the BPI enforces strong cryptographic ciphersuites and secure settings in the TLS configuration for both TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    4. Validate that the BPI enforces strong cryptographic cipher suites and secure settings in the TLS configuration for both TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3.
```

    6. Test the BPI communication by initiating TLS connections between BPI instances, ensuring that the selected TLS version adheres to the requirements specified in the documentation.
    7. Monitor the TLS handshake process to verify that it successfully negotiates either TLS 1.2 or TLS 1.3 based on the supported versions of the communicating BPIs.
    8. Capture and analyze network traffic to ensure that TLS encryption is applied to the message transport between BPIs.
    9. Perform a vulnerability assessment to identify potential security issues in the TLS implementation and configuration.

    Passing Criteria:
    * The BPI documentation clearly states that TLS protocol versions 1.2 and/or 1.3 are utilized for message transport between BPIs.
    * The BPI supports TLS protocol version negotiation and can dynamically select the highest supported TLS version during the handshake process.
    * The TLS handshake process successfully negotiates either TLS 1.2 or TLS 1.3, depending on the capabilities of the communicating BPIs.

>     * Strong cryptographic ciphersuites and secure settings are enforced for both TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3 connections in the BPI configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Strong cryptographic cipher suites and secure settings are enforced for both TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3 connections in the BPI configuration.
```

        
      *This simplifies the authentication of the message without having to rely on a 3rd party identity provider to validate the digital certificate issued to the BPI Subject. Non-normative examples of W3C DID Documents can be found in [[W3C DID](#W3C-DID)]*

      [[D21]](#d21) Testability:

      Preconditions:
      * The BPI system is operational and supports the use of JSON Web Signature (JWS) and JSON Web Encryption (JWE).
      * The BPI is capable of working with W3C Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) and the associated DID documents.
      * The BPI supports the use of public key cryptography for digital signatures.

      Test Steps:
      1. Create a sample BPI Message.
      2. Generate a W3C DID document that contains the public keys to be used for digital signatures.
      3. Sign the BPI Message using the private key corresponding to one of the public keys in the W3C DID document.
      4. Attach the JWS and/or JWE to the BPI Message.
      5. Transmit the BPI Message to another BPI instance.

>       6. Verify that the recipient BPI instance can successfully validate the digital signature using the corresponding public key from the W3C DID document that is resolved from the senders W3C DID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      6. Verify that the recipient BPI instance can successfully validate the digital signature using the corresponding public key from the W3C DID document that is resolved from the sender's W3C DID.
```
